TELCODOCS-1861: Add concept module for introducing IBGU (#81685)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ztp-image-based-upgrade-concept.adoc

The stage transitions are different from the `ImageBasedUpgrade` API as the `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` API allows you to combine several stage transitions, also called actions, into one step that share one rollout strategy.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-supported-combinations_{context}"]
== Supported action combinations

Actions are the list of stage transitions that {cgu-operator} completes in the steps of an upgrade plan for the selected group of clusters.
Each `plan` entry in the `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR is a separate step and a step contains one or several actions that share the same rollout strategy.
You can achieve more control over the rollout strategy for each action by separating actions into steps.

These actions can be combined differently in your upgrade plan and you can append subsequent steps later.
However, you must assess the overall result of the previous steps before appending a step to your plan.
Either the `Abort` or `Rollback` action must be the first action of a separate step that you append for a set of clusters that failed a previous step.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> However, you cannot remove actions or steps from an ongoing plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot remove actions or steps from an ongoing plan.
```

====

The following table shows example plans for different levels of control over the rollout strategy:

.Example upgrade plans
[cols=3*, width="100%", options="header"]
|====

> |All actions share same strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|All actions share the same strategy
```

> |Some actions share same strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Some actions share the same strategy
```

> |All action different strategy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|All actions have different strategies
```

a|[source,yaml]
----
plan:
- actions: ["Prep", "Upgrade", "FinalizeUpgrade"]
  rolloutStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 200
    timeout: 60
----
a|[source,yaml]
----
plan:
- actions: ["Prep", "Upgrade"]
  rolloutStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 200
    timeout: 60
- actions: ["FinalizeUpgrade"]
  rolloutStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 500
    timeout: 10
----
a|[source,yaml]
----
plan:
- actions: ["Prep"]
  rolloutStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 200
    timeout: 60
- actions: ["Upgrade"]
  rolloutStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 200
    timeout: 20
- actions: ["FinalizeUpgrade"]
  rolloutStrategy:
    maxConcurrency: 500
    timeout: 10
----
|====

[IMPORTANT]
====

> The clusters that fail one of the actions will skip the rest of the actions in the same step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clusters that fail one of the actions will skip the remaining actions in the same step.
```

====

The `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` API accepts the following actions:

`Prep`:: Start preparing the upgrade resources by moving to the `Prep` stage.
`Upgrade`:: Start the upgrade by moving to the `Upgrade` stage.
`FinalizeUpgrade`:: Finalize the upgrade on selected clusters that completed the `Upgrade` action by moving to the `Idle` stage.
`Rollback`:: Start a rollback only on successfully upgraded clusters by moving to the `Rollback` stage.
`FinalizeRollback`:: Finalize the rollback by moving to the `Idle` stage.
`AbortOnFailure`:: Cancel the upgrade on selected clusters that failed the `Prep` or `Upgrade` actions by moving to the `Idle` stage.

> `Abort`:: Cancel an ongoing upgrade only on clusters that are not upgraded yet by moving to the `Idle` stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Abort`:: Cancel an ongoing upgrade only on clusters that are not yet upgraded by moving to the `Idle` stage.
```

> The following action combinations are supported, where one pair of brackets signify one step in the `plan` section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following action combinations are supported. A pair of brackets signifies one step in the `plan` section:
```

* `["Prep"]`, `["Abort"]`
* `["Prep", "Upgrade", "FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["Prep"]`, `["AbortOnFailure"]`, `["Upgrade"]`, `["AbortOnFailure"]`, `["FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["Rollback", "FinalizeRollback"]`

> The following combinations are for cases where you need to resume or cancel an ongoing upgrade from a completely new `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use one of the following combinations when you need to resume or cancel an ongoing upgrade from a completely new `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR:
```

* `["Upgrade","FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["FinalizeRollback"]`
* `["Abort"]`
* `["AbortOnFailure"]`

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-cluster-labeling_{context}"]
== Labeling for cluster selection

> You can use the `clusterLabelSelectors` field for initial cluster selection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `clusterLabelSelectors` field for initial cluster selection.
```

> In addition, {cgu-operator} labels the managed clusters according to the results of their last stage transition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{cgu-operator} labels the managed clusters according to the results of their last stage transition.
```

> If a stage completes or fails, {cgu-operator} marks the relevant clusters with the following labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a stage completes or fails, {cgu-operator} marks the relevant clusters with the following labels:
```

* `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-<stage>-completed`
* `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-<stage>-failed`

> For example, if you want to cancel the upgrade for all managed clusters except for clusters that successfully completed the upgrade, you can append an `Abort` action to your plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, if you want to cancel the upgrade for all managed clusters except for clusters that successfully completed the upgrade, you can add an `Abort` action to your plan.
```

> For example, if you want to cancel the upgrade for all managed clusters except for clusters that successfully completed the upgrade, you can append an `Abort` action to your plan.

Reviewer: I don't quite understand the transition and flow of the docs here. The example seems to come out of nowhere. Is there something that can be added that makes the transition from the list of labels to an example of adding the `Abort` action make more sense?

> This ensures that all clusters that has the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label are not moved back to the `Idle` stage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This ensures that all clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label are not moved back to the `Idle` stage.
```

> These transition labels are removed after successfully canceling or finalizing the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Transition labels are removed after successfully canceling or finalizing the change.
```

`Rollback`:: Start a rollback only on successfully upgraded clusters by moving to the `Rollback` stage.
`FinalizeRollback`:: Finalize the rollback by moving to the `Idle` stage.
`AbortOnFailure`:: Cancel the upgrade on selected clusters that failed the `Prep` or `Upgrade` actions by moving to the `Idle` stage.
`Abort`:: Cancel an ongoing upgrade only on clusters that are not yet upgraded by moving to the `Idle` stage.

The following action combinations are supported. A pair of brackets signifies one step in the `plan` section:

* `["Prep"]`, `["Abort"]`
* `["Prep", "Upgrade", "FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["Prep"]`, `["AbortOnFailure"]`, `["Upgrade"]`, `["AbortOnFailure"]`, `["FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["Rollback", "FinalizeRollback"]`

Use one of the following combinations when you need to resume or cancel an ongoing upgrade from a completely new `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR:

* `["Upgrade","FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["FinalizeRollback"]`
* `["Abort"]`
* `["AbortOnFailure"]`

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-cluster-labeling_{context}"]
== Labeling for cluster selection

> Use the `clusterLabelSelectors` field for initial cluster selection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `spec.clusterLabelSelectors` field for initial cluster selection.
```

{cgu-operator} labels the managed clusters according to the results of their last stage transition.

When a stage completes or fails, {cgu-operator} marks the relevant clusters with the following labels:

* `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-<stage>-completed`
* `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-<stage>-failed`

For example, if you want to cancel the upgrade for all managed clusters except for clusters that successfully completed the upgrade, you can add an `Abort` action to your plan.

> This ensures that all clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label are not moved back to the `Idle` stage.

Author: Rephrased this paragraph. WDYT?
> If you want to cancel the upgrade for all managed clusters except for clusters that successfully completed the upgrade, you can add an `Abort` action to your plan. The `Abort` action moves back the `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR to `Idle` stage, which cancels the upgrade on not yet upgraded clusters. Adding a separate `Abort` action ensures that the {cgu-operator} does not perform the `Abort` action on clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label.

> This ensures that all clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label are not moved back to the `Idle` stage.

Reviewer 2: `If user wants to cancel ....` ` user can add an Abort action to the plan. `

> This ensures that all clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label are not moved back to the `Idle` stage.

Reviewer 3: @amolnar-rh I'm fine with either. It doesn't matter technically but should be consistent throughout. I'm sure there's a doc standard for this you are following.

> This ensures that all clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label are not moved back to the `Idle` stage.

Reviewer 2: It's okay to me if you adhere to Red Hat documentation standards.

> Transition labels are removed after successfully canceling or finalizing the change.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These cluster labels are removed after executing the 'Abort' action plan successfully which performs canceling or finalizing the change.
```

Author: This implies that the `Abort` action cancels _and_ finalizes the change, which while technically true, this can be confusing. We've been using these two phrases for different scenarios:
- Canceling: move back to Idle before the Upgrade stage could finish. This is Abort but as per the conscious language initiative, we can't use abort, instead we use cancel.
- Finalize change: Move to Idle after a successful Upgrade or Rollback

Reviewer 2: Okay. In my view, Transition labels is uncertain from end-users perspective - I tend to question myself `what is Transition labels` and for the rest - I will leave it to you to make a final conclusion.

Author: I changed this to cluster labels to avoid confusion but I kept the rest of the sentence. So the current version is:
> The cluster labels are removed after successfully canceling or finalizing the change.

Reviewer 2: Okay, Looks good to me.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-status-monitoring_{context}"]
== Status monitoring

The `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR ensures better monitoring experience with a comprehensive status reporting for all clusters that is aggregated in one place.
You can monitor the following actions:

> `status.completedActions`:: Shows all completed actions defined in the `plan` section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`status.clusters.completedActions`:: Shows all completed actions defined in the `plan` section.
```

> `status.currentAction`:: Shows all actions that are currently in progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`status.clusters.currentAction`:: Shows all actions that are currently in progress.
```

> `status.failedActions`:: Shows all failed actions along with a detailed error message.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`status.clusters.failedActions`:: Shows all failed actions along with a detailed error message.
```

The `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` API allows you to combine several stage transitions, also called actions, into one step that share one rollout strategy.

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-supported-combinations_{context}"]
== Supported action combinations

Actions are the list of stage transitions that {cgu-operator} completes in the steps of an upgrade plan for the selected group of clusters.
Each `action` entry in the `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR is a separate step and a step contains one or several actions that share the same rollout strategy.
You can achieve more control over the rollout strategy for each action by separating actions into steps.

These actions can be combined differently in your upgrade plan and you can add subsequent steps later.
Wait until the previous steps either complete or fail before adding a step to your plan.
The first action of an added step for clusters that failed a previous steps must be either `Abort` or `Rollback`.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You cannot remove actions or steps from an ongoing plan.
====

The following table shows example plans for different levels of control over the rollout strategy:

.Example upgrade plans

> [cols=3*, width="100%", options="header"]

Reviewer 4: Would it be better to rotate the table? i.e. 2 by 3 instead of 3 by 2?

Author: WDYT?
https://81685--ocpdocs-pr.netlify.app/openshift-enterprise/latest/edge_computing/image_based_upgrade/ztp-image-based-upgrade.html#ztp-image-based-upgrade-supported-combinations_ztp-gitops

* `["Upgrade","FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["FinalizeUpgrade"]`
* `["FinalizeRollback"]`
* `["Abort"]`
* `["AbortOnFailure"]`

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-cluster-labeling_{context}"]
== Labeling for cluster selection

Use the `spec.clusterLabelSelectors` field for initial cluster selection.
In addition, {cgu-operator} labels the managed clusters according to the results of their last stage transition.

When a stage completes or fails, {cgu-operator} marks the relevant clusters with the following labels:

* `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-<stage>-completed`
* `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-<stage>-failed`

Use these cluster labels to cancel or roll back an upgrade on a group of clusters.

For example, if you want to cancel the upgrade for all managed clusters except for clusters that successfully completed the upgrade, you can add an `Abort` action to your plan.
The `Abort` action moves back the `ImageBasedUpgrade` CR to `Idle` stage, which cancels the upgrade on not yet upgraded clusters.
Adding a separate `Abort` action ensures that the {cgu-operator} does not perform the `Abort` action on clusters that have the `lcm.openshift.io/ibgu-upgrade-completed` label.

> The cluster labels are removed after successfully canceling or finalizing the change.

Reviewer 4: Nit
```suggestion
The cluster labels are removed after successfully canceling or finalizing the upgrade.
```

[id="ztp-image-based-upgrade-supported-combinations_{context}"]
== Supported action combinations

Actions are the list of stage transitions that {cgu-operator} completes in the steps of an upgrade plan for the selected group of clusters.
Each `action` entry in the `ImageBasedGroupUpgrade` CR is a separate step and a step contains one or several actions that share the same rollout strategy.
You can achieve more control over the rollout strategy for each action by separating actions into steps.

These actions can be combined differently in your upgrade plan and you can add subsequent steps later.
Wait until the previous steps either complete or fail before adding a step to your plan.
The first action of an added step for clusters that failed a previous steps must be either `Abort` or `Rollback`.

[IMPORTANT]
====
You cannot remove actions or steps from an ongoing plan.
====

The following table shows example plans for different levels of control over the rollout strategy:

.Example upgrade plans
[cols=2*, width="100%", options="header"]
|====
|Example plan
|Description

a|[source,yaml]
----
plan:
- actions: ["Prep", "Upgrade", "FinalizeUpgrade"]
  rolloutStrategy:

>     maxConcurrency: 200

Reviewer 4: Do we explain these fields under `rolloutStrategy` anywhere?

Author: [I have added an example IBGU](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/81685/commits/ec54b4a98d9ea5855af7c0499c32ac9c1faa4d82) where the rolloutStrategy fields are briefly described.
